Study	PMID	Code	ShortName	Title	Authors	Abstract	Summary	Type	Journal	Date	Targets	CGD_files	DuplicateGenes	ExcludeTissues
Campbell	26947069	B	Campbell(2016)	Large Scale Profiling of Kinase Dependencies in Cancer Cell Line	"Campbell J, Ryan CJ, Brough R, Bajrami I, Pemberton H, Chong I, Costa-Cabral S, Frankum J, Gulati A, Holme H, Miller R, Postel-Vinay S, Rafiq R, Wei W, Williamson CT, Quigley DA, Tym J, Al-Lazikani B, Fenton T, Natrajan R, Strauss S, Ashworth A, Lord CJ"	"One approach to identifying cancer-specific vulnerabilities and novel therapeutic targets is to profile genetic dependencies in cancer cell lines. Here we use siRNA screening to estimate the genetic dependencies on 714 kinase and kinase-related genes in 117 different tumor cell lines. We provide this dataset as a resource and show that by integrating siRNA data with molecular profiling data, such as exome sequencing, candidate genetic dependencies associated with the mutation of specific cancer driver genescan be identified. By integrating the identified dependencies with interaction datasets, we demonstrate that the kinase dependencies associated with many cancer driver genes form dense connections on functional interaction networks. Finally, we show how this resource may be used to make predictions about the drug sensitivity of genetically or histologically defined subsets of cell lines, including an increased sensitivity of osteosarcoma cell lines to FGFR inhibitors and SMAD4 mutant tumor cells to mitotic inhibitors."	siRNA screen of 714 kinase and kinase-related genes in 117 different tumor cell lines	siRNA	Cell Reports	"2016, 2 Mar"	714	Campbell_CGDs_bytissue_witheffectsize_and_zdiff_and_boxplotdata_mutantstate.txt;Campbell_CGDs_pancan_witheffectsize_and_zdiff_and_boxplotdata_mutantstate.txt	0	
#Achilles	25984343	A	Cowley(2014)	Parallel genome-scale loss of function screens in 216 cancer cell lines for the identification of context-specific genetic dependencies.	"Cowley GS, Weir BA, Vazquez F, Tamayo P, Scott JA, Rusin S, East-Seletsky A, Ali LD, Gerath WF, Pantel SE, Lizotte PH, Jiang G, Hsiao J, Tsherniak A, Dwinell E, Aoyama S, Okamoto M, Harrington W, Gelfand E, Green TM, Tomko MJ, Gopal S, Wong TC, Li H, Howell S, Stransky N, Liefeld T, Jang D, Bistline J, Hill Meyers B, Armstrong SA, Anderson KC, Stegmaier K, Reich M, Pellman D, Boehm JS, Mesirov JP, Golub TR, Root DE, Hahn WC"	"Using a genome-scale, lentivirally delivered shRNA library, we performed massively parallel pooled shRNA screens in 216 cancer cell lines to identify genes that are required for cell proliferation and/or viability. Cell line dependencies on 11,000 genes were interrogated by 5 shRNAs per gene. The proliferation effect of each shRNA in each cell line was assessed by transducing a population of 11M cells with one shRNA-virus per cell and determining the relative enrichment or depletion of each of the 54,000 shRNAs after 16 population doublings using Next Generation Sequencing. All the cell lines were screened using standardized conditions to best assess differential genetic dependencies across cell lines. When combined with genomic characterization of these cell lines, this dataset facilitates the linkage of genetic dependencies with specific cellular contexts (e.g., gene mutations or cell lineage). To enable such comparisons, we developed and provided a bioinformatics tool to identify linear and nonlinear correlations between these features."	"shRNA screen of 11,000 genes in 216 different cancer cell lines, with 5 shRNAs per gene"	shRNA	Scientific Data	"2014, 30 Sep"	5013	Cowley_CGDs_bytissue_witheffectsize_and_zdiff_and_boxplotdata_mutantstate.txt;Cowley_CGDs_pancan_witheffectsize_and_zdiff_and_boxplotdata_mutantstate.txt	1	
Marcotte	26771497	C	Marcotte(2016)	"Functional Genomic Landscape of Human Breast Cancer Drivers, Vulnerabilities, and Resistance."	"Marcotte R, Sayad A, Brown KR, Sanchez-Garcia F, Reimand J, Haider M, Virtanen C, Bradner JE, Bader GD, Mills GB, Pe'er D, Moffat J, Neel BG"	"Large-scale genomic studies have identified multiple somatic aberrations in breast cancer, including copy number alterations and point mutations. Still, identifying causal variants and emergent vulnerabilities that arise as a consequence of genetic alterations remain major challenges. We performed whole-genome small hairpin RNA (shRNA) \""dropout screens\"" on 77 breast cancer cell lines. Using a hierarchical linear regression algorithm to score our screen results and integrate them with accompanying detailed genetic and proteomic information, we identify vulnerabilities in breast cancer, including candidate \""drivers,\"" and reveal general functional genomic properties of cancer cells. Comparisons of gene essentiality with drug sensitivity data suggest potential resistance mechanisms, effects of existing anti-cancer drugs, and opportunities for combination therapy. Finally, we demonstrate the utility of this large dataset by identifying BRD4 as a potential target in luminal breast cancer and PIK3CA mutations as a resistance determinant for BET-inhibitors."	genome-wide shRNA screen in 77 breast cancer cell lines	shRNA	Cell	"2016, 14 Jan"	15697	Marcotte_CGDs_bytissue_witheffectsize_and_zdiff_and_boxplotdata_mutantstate.txt	0	
Wang	28162770	D	Wang(2017)	"Gene Essentiality Profiling Reveals Gene Networks and Synthetic Lethal Interactions with Oncogenic Ras"	"Wang T, Yu H, Hughes NW, Liu B, Kendirli A, Klein K, Chen WW, Lander ES, Sabatini DM"	"The genetic dependencies of human cancers widely vary. Here, we catalog this heterogeneity and use it to identify functional gene interactions and genotype-dependent liabilities in cancer. By using genome-wide CRISPR-based screens, we generate a gene essentiality dataset across 14 human acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell lines. Sets of genes with correlated patterns of essentiality across the lines reveal new gene relationships, the essential substrates of enzymes, and the molecular functions of uncharacterized proteins. Comparisons of differentially essential genes between Ras-dependent and -independent lines uncover synthetic lethal partners of oncogenic Ras. Screens in both human AML and engineered mouse pro-B cells converge on a surprisingly small number of genes in the Ras processing and MAPK pathways and pinpoint PREX1 as an AML-specific activator of MAPK signaling. Our findings suggest general strategies for defining mammalian gene networks and synthetic lethal interactions by exploiting the natural genetic and epigenetic diversity of human cancer cells."	genome-wide CRISPR-based screens across 14 human acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cell lines.	CRISPR	Cell	"2017, 23 Feb"	18664	Wang_mmc3_CGDs_bytissue_witheffectsize_and_zdiff_and_boxplotdata_mutantstate.txt	0	
Marcotte2012	22585861	E	Marcotte(2012)	"Essential gene profiles in breast, pancreatic, and ovarian cancer cells."	"Marcotte R, Brown KR, Suarez F, Sayad A, Karamboulas K, Krzyzanowski PM, Sircoulomb F, Medrano M, Fedyshyn Y, Koh JL, van Dyk D, Fedyshyn B, Luhova M, Brito GC, Vizeacoumar FJ, Vizeacoumar FS, Datti A, Kasimer D, Buzina A, Mero P, Misquitta C, Normand J, Haider M, Ketela T, Wrana JL, Rottapel R, Neel BG, Moffat J"	"Essential gene profiles in breast, pancreatic, and ovarian cancer cells."	"genome-wide shRNA screen in 72 breast, ovarian and pancreatic cancer cell lines"	shRNA	Cancer Discovery	"2012, 1 Feb"	16028	Marcotte2012_CGDs_bytissue_witheffectsize_and_zdiff_and_boxplotdata_mutantstate.txt;Marcotte2012_CGDs_pancan_witheffectsize_and_zdiff_and_boxplotdata_mutantstate.txt	0	BREAST
Hahn	28753430	F	Tsherniak(2017)	"Defining a Cancer Dependency Map."	"Tsherniak A, Vazquez F, Montgomery PG, Weir BA, Kryukov G, Cowley GS, Gill S, Harrington WF, Pantel S, Krill-Burger JM, Meyers RM, Ali L, Goodale A, Lee Y, Jiang G, Hsiao J, Gerath WFJ, Howell S, Merkel E, Ghandi M, Garraway LA, Root DE, Golub TR, Boehm JS, Hahn WC"	"Most human epithelial tumors harbor numerous alterations, making it difficult to predict which genes are required for tumor survival. To systematically identify cancer dependencies, we analyzed 501 genome-scale loss-of-function screens performed in diverse human cancer cell lines. We developed DEMETER, an analytical framework that segregates on- from off-target effects of RNAi. 769 genes were differentially required in subsets of these cell lines at a threshold of six SDs from the mean. We found predictive models for 426 dependencies (55%) by nonlinear regression modeling considering 66,646 molecular features. Many dependencies fall into a limited number of classes, and unexpectedly, in 82% of models, the top biomarkers were expression based. We demonstrated the basis behind one such predictive model linking hypermethylation of the UBB ubiquitin gene to a dependency on UBC. Together, these observations provide a foundation for a cancer dependency map that facilitates the prioritization of therapeutic targets."	"shRNA screen identified 769 strong differential dependencies in 501 cancer cell lines"	shRNA	Cell	"2017, 27 July"	0	Hahn_CGDs_bytissue_witheffectsize_and_zdiff_and_boxplotdata_mutantstate.txt;Hahn_CGDs_pancan_witheffectsize_and_zdiff_and_boxplotdata_mutantstate.txt	1	
McDonald	28753431	G	McDonald(2017)	"Project DRIVE: A Compendium of Cancer Dependencies and Synthetic Lethal Relationships Uncovered by Large-Scale, Deep RNAi Screening"	"McDonald ER 3rd, de Weck A, Schlabach MR, Billy E, Mavrakis KJ, Hoffman GR, Belur D, Castelletti D, Frias E, Gampa K, Golji J, Kao I, Li L, Megel P, Perkins TA, Ramadan N, Ruddy DA, Silver SJ, Sovath S, Stump M, Weber O, Widmer R, Yu J, Yu K, Yue Y, Abramowski D, Ackley E, Barrett R, Berger J, Bernard JL, Billig R, Brachmann SM, Buxton F, Caothien R, Caushi JX, Chung FS, Cortés-Cros M, deBeaumont RS, Delaunay C, Desplat A, Duong W, Dwoske DA, Eldridge RS, Farsidjani A, Feng F, Feng J, Flemming D, Forrester W, Galli GG, Gao Z, Gauter F, Gibaja V, Haas K, Hattenberger M, Hood T, Hurov KE, Jagani Z, Jenal M, Johnson JA, Jones MD, Kapoor A, Korn J, Liu J, Liu Q, Liu S, Liu Y, Loo AT, Macchi KJ, Martin T, McAllister G, Meyer A, Mollé S, Pagliarini RA, Phadke T, Repko B, Schouwey T, Shanahan F, Shen Q, Stamm C, Stephan C, Stucke VM, Tiedt R, Varadarajan M, Venkatesan K, Vitari AC, Wallroth M, Weiler J, Zhang J, Mickanin C, Myer VE, Porter JA, Lai A, Bitter H, Lees E, Keen N, Kauffmann A, Stegmeier F, Hofmann F, Schmelzle T, Sellers WR"	"Elucidation of the mutational landscape of human cancer has progressed rapidly and been accompanied by the development of therapeutics targeting mutant oncogenes. However, a comprehensive mapping of cancer dependencies has lagged behind and the discovery of therapeutic targets for counteracting tumor suppressor gene loss is needed. To identify vulnerabilities relevant to specific cancer subtypes, we conducted a large-scale RNAi screen in which viability effects of mRNA knockdown were assessed for 7,837 genes using an average of 20 shRNAs per gene in 398 cancer cell lines. We describe findings of this screen, outlining the classes of cancer dependency genes and their relationships to genetic, expression, and lineage features. In addition, we describe robust gene-interaction networks recapitulating both protein complexes and functional cooperation among complexes and pathways. This dataset along with a web portal is provided to the community to assist in the discovery and translation of new therapeutic approaches for cancer."	"lentiviral library was produced targeting 7,837 human genes with a median of 20 shRNAs per gene and used to screen 398 cancer cell lines in a pooled format"	shRNAs	Cell	"2017 Jul 27"	7837	DRIVE_ATARiS_CGDs_bytissue_witheffectsize_and_zdiff_and_boxplotdata_mutantstate.txt;DRIVE_ATARiS_CGDs_pancan_witheffectsize_and_zdiff_and_boxplotdata_mutantstate.txt	0	